well let's go straight now to the
southern Israeli city of ashalon and our
chief International correspondent leis
duet um leas hello to you um can we
first of all just focus on the
Diplomatic efforts uh we awaiting a
statement from Anthony blinkin the US
Secretary of State he's visited what six
Arab states over the last four days
spoken to six different leaders how
would you summarize the US approach to
what's happening where you
are Israel is
I think it it's clear that Israel and
the United States are almost in lock
step now at least at this moment the
United States is doing everything it can
both to show Israel that it will stand
by it stand by its right to defend
itself but also to send a very clear me
message as it staunches of allies that
Israel also has to do everything it can
to try to minimize civilian
harm Anthony blinkin came to Israel some
days ago he did his tour of the region
speaking to every Arab leader who could
have some sway over one side or the
other one part or the other in this in
this conflation he's come back to Israel
and we've just heard that instead of
going back to the United States tonight
has planned he's going to go back to the
Jordanian Capital Aman so whenever a top
Diplomat like Anthony blinkin changes
his travel schedule it is perhaps a sign
that there is they're working on
something and we know that they are
focusing on two fronts one is that they
want to get that rough acrossing the
only way in and out of Gaza on on gaza's
Southern border to get the foreign
Nationals out about a thousand of them
to get that desperately needed Aid food
fuel medicine the lores are piling up at
the Rafa Crossing in Egypt Sinai
Peninsula secondly they want to do
everything possible to ensure that this
crisis does not spread as bad as it it
is in Israel and Gaza if it spreads even
further if it spills across the border
then it is an even more dangerous
territory tell us you're in uh ashalon
the military buildup presumably there
continues um
to the the ground offensive have you got
any sense of you know just tell us what
you're seeing what you're hearing where
you
are well this is day 10 of of this war
10 days since the massacres committed by
Hamas in southern in southern Israel
we've seen with every day the Israeli
forces uh racing down to the border the
artillery the armor they're now in a
Zone a closed military zone that were
not allow to enter but throughout today
we moved around southern Israel
including to stat Which is less than a
mile from the Gaza border there was the
constant sound of our Israeli artillery
firing into Gaza and at every place
place that we went the Israeli military
moved us away that it was too dangerous
that we could be in the line of fire in
the last position they said there could
be an errant missile fired by the tanks
which are firing into Gaza you get a
sense that that that the military
operations are gathering pace and of
course the non-stop bombardment of Gaza
it seems as though Israel wants to well
there was hope there could be a
ceasefire in southern Gaza that hasn't
been reached but that is Focus now so
that there can be more humanitarian and
a rescue of some of the people um in
Gaza I have to say it's been relatively
quiet there was two days ago there were
the air raid sirens went off almost
every hour here in ashalon it's been
relatively quiet today although there
have been missiles fired in other parts
of Southern Israel and in in Border
towns like satat an official evacuation
is taking place to move even more people
to safety away from that border okay Le
duet uh thank you that's leet our chief
International correspondent there in the
southern Israeli city of ashalon